5845 docs a (#3431)
ionic-team/ionic-docs: docs/theming/high-contrast-mode.md

---
title: Hide Contrast Mode
initialTab: 'preview'

> inlineHtmlPreviews: true

Reviewer: What does `initialTab` and `inlineHtmlPreviews` do? I couldn't find anything in Docusaurus or within the docs source code.

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/bcafcbe89d5614d96dab5dcfa93b6785fb98e359

---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<head>
  <title>High Contrast Mode to Increase Color Contrast</title>
  <meta
    name="description"
    content="Developers are adding high contrast mode CSS on native applications to support their user preferences. Read to learn more about high contrast color schemes for Ionic apps."
  />
</head>

Ionic ships with themes for increased contrast for users with low vision. These themes work by increasing the contrast between foreground content, such as text, and background content, such as UI components. Ionic provides light and dark variants for high contrast.

## Overview

> The [Ionic colors](./colors) in the high contrast theme have been updated to meet [Level AAA color contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-enhanced.html) as defined by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) when used with the appropriate contrast color. The theme also seeks to improve the contrast of UI components such as the border on an Item. However, Ionic's high contrast theme prioritizes text. This means that if increasing the contrast of a UI component against the page background would significantly reduce the contrast of the component's text against the component's background, the UI component contrast will not be modified.

Author: This is not super clear, so open to ideas for how to better explain this

Reviewer: Courtesy of Chat GPT:

"The Ionic high contrast theme has been enhanced to adhere to Level AAA color contrast standards as outlined in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), particularly when paired with the appropriate contrast color. Notably, improvements have been made to the contrast of UI components, including item borders. However, it's important to note that within the high contrast theme, priority is given to text legibility. Consequently, if adjusting the contrast of a UI component against the background would significantly compromise the contrast between the component's text and its background, the contrast of the UI component will remain unchanged."

Author: Tried to combine in https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/851d6f79ef3e8936af401bb396a28bc7e8625f0c. Lmk your thoughts

## Enabling High Contrast Theme

There are three provided ways to enable the high contrast theme in an app: **always**, based on **system** settings, or by using a **class**.

### Always

> The default theme provided with Ionic Framework also uses the default color contrast levels. The high contrast theme can be enabled by importing the following stylesheet in the appropriate files. This approach will enable the high contrast theme regardless of a user's preference for high contrast.

Author: I took a slightly different approach, but lmk your thoughts: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/31ca911f6f764e80cdf7d35cf16b3406383911e1

<Tabs groupId="framework" defaultValue="angular" values={[{ value: 'angular', label: 'Angular' }, { value: 'javascript', label: 'Javascript' }, { value: 'react', label: 'React' }, { value: 'vue', label: 'Vue' }]}>

<TabItem value="angular">

```css
@import '@ionic/angular/css/themes/high-contrast.always.css';

> ```

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/e462370ad55b393d5e5c0e0508b1b35682c3692c

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="javascript">

```ts
import '@ionic/core/css/themes/high-contrast.always.css';
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="react">

```tsx
import '@ionic/react/css/themes/high-contrast.always.css';
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="vue">

```ts
import '@ionic/vue/css/themes/high-contrast.always.css';
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

The high contrast dark theme can be applied by importing `high-contrast-dark.always.css` instead of `high-contrast.always.css`.

The following example will always display the high contrast light theme, regardless of the user's preference for high contrast or dark mode.

import AlwaysHighContrastMode from '@site/static/usage/v8/theming/always-high-contrast-mode/index.md';

<AlwaysHighContrastMode />

> ### System

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/baa16e7f1f01eda177e6b2cd4c7e3750560cf707

The system approach to enabling high contrast mode involves checking the system settings for the user's preferred contrast. This is the default when starting a new Ionic Framework app. Importing the following stylesheets in the appropriate file will automatically retrieve the user's preference from the system settings and apply the high contrast theme when high contrast is preferred.

<Tabs groupId="framework" defaultValue="angular" values={[{ value: 'angular', label: 'Angular' }, { value: 'javascript', label: 'Javascript' }, { value: 'react', label: 'React' }, { value: 'vue', label: 'Vue' }]}>

<TabItem value="angular">

```css
@import '@ionic/angular/css/themes/high-contrast.system.css';

> @import '@ionic/angular/css/themes/high-contrast-dark.system.css';

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/895624e36035dd35473e09cdd2a11da4f7f34a41

The following example uses the system settings to decide when to show high contrast mode.

:::info
Not sure how to change the system settings? Here's how to enable high contrast mode on [Windows 11](hhttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/turn-high-contrast-mode-on-or-off-in-windows-909e9d89-a0f9-a3a9-b993-7a6dcee85025) and on [macOS](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-display-settings-for-accessibility-unac089/mac).
:::

import SystemHighContrastMode from '@site/static/usage/v8/theming/system-high-contrast-mode/index.md';

<SystemHighContrastMode />
:::caution The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss), and the
high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.system.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take priority.

> :::

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/5d62e64b0281d32cd710a0ee6681909189ee61c3

The following example combines site settings, system settings, and the toggle to decide when to show high contrast mode. The site's theme takes precedence over system settings. If your system settings differ from the site's theme when the demo loads, it will use the site's theme.

:::info
Not sure how to change the system settings? Here's how to enable high contrast mode on [Windows 11](hhttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/turn-high-contrast-mode-on-or-off-in-windows-909e9d89-a0f9-a3a9-b993-7a6dcee85025) and on [macOS](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-display-settings-for-accessibility-unac089/mac).
:::

import ClassHighContrastMode from '@site/static/usage/v8/theming/class-high-contrast-mode/index.md';

<ClassHighContrastMode />
:::caution Important The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss),
and the high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.class.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take

> priority. :::

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/65b2433bb6202af7d4fe1656929087433f18f7d2

> :::caution Important The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss),
> and the high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.class.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take
> priority. :::
> 
> :::caution Important
> The `.ion-theme-high-contrast` class **must** be added to the `html` element in order to work with the imported high contrast theme.
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::caution 
Important The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss),
and the high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.class.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take
priority. 
:::

:::caution Important
The `.ion-theme-high-contrast` class **must** be added to the `html` element in order to work with the imported high contrast theme.
:::
```

Formatting is off here, not sure if this fixes it:

![Screenshot 2024-02-08 at 1 00 40 PM](https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/assets/6577830/f1213bff-b1e8-4fbc-b303-e44fc5ef111c)

> ## Customizing Ionic High Contrast Theme

Reviewer 2: Should we include a note here about how you need to include the dark files to work with dark mode + apply the dark mode class or have the system settings set for the class and system files, respectively?

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/daadec0488b5887cc846fee188afa8ec9f9a82cc

> ---

Reviewer 3: This file uses a mix of links with the file extension included and omitted. I don't care which we use, but we should be consistent. 

e.g.: `./colors` vs `colors.md`

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/5b70e28c09360d0a68a3a02a680f6458ceb4528e

## Overview

The default theme in Ionic provides [Ionic colors](./colors) that meet [Level AA color contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html) as defined by Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) when used with the appropriate contrast color. The [Ionic colors](./colors) in the high contrast theme have been updated to meet [Level AAA color contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-enhanced.html) when used with the appropriate contrast color. Notably, improvements have been made to the contrast of UI components, including border, text, and background colors. However, it's important to note that within the high contrast theme, priority is given to text legibility. This means that if adjusting the contrast of a UI component against the page background would significantly compromise the contrast between the component's text and its background, the contrast of the UI component background will remain unchanged.

## Enabling High Contrast Theme

> There are three provided ways to enable the high contrast theme in an app: **always**, based on **system** settings, or by using a **class**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are three provided ways to enable the high contrast theme in an app: **always**, based on **system** settings, or by using a CSS **class**.
```

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/c27e0629644567f66cf7053de00d88aa1c6b8500

### Always

The high contrast theme can be enabled by importing the following stylesheet in the appropriate files. This approach will enable the high contrast theme regardless of the system settings for contrast preference.

<Tabs groupId="framework" defaultValue="angular" values={[{ value: 'angular', label: 'Angular' }, { value: 'javascript', label: 'Javascript' }, { value: 'react', label: 'React' }, { value: 'vue', label: 'Vue' }]}>

<TabItem value="angular">

> ```typescript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```css
```

Author: This is technically a JS import, since devs would to it in `main.ts` or something. Should this be `javascript` instead for the code block?

Reviewer 2: In Angular it is in the CSS though: https://github.com/ionic-team/starters/blob/feature-8.0/angular/base/src/global.scss

Author: Oh 🤦 I have my frameworks backwards. In other frameworks it's JS, but not in Angular. I'll fix

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/7e623d6f02c61d40e92bfa588e2a9647c60a11f2

The following example uses the system settings to decide when to show high contrast mode.

:::info
Not sure how to change the system settings? Here's how to enable high contrast mode on [Windows 11](hhttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/turn-high-contrast-mode-on-or-off-in-windows-909e9d89-a0f9-a3a9-b993-7a6dcee85025) and on [macOS](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-display-settings-for-accessibility-unac089/mac).
:::

import SystemHighContrastMode from '@site/static/usage/v8/theming/system-high-contrast-mode/index.md';

<SystemHighContrastMode />

:::caution
The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss), and the
high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.system.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take priority.
:::

> ### Class

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### CSS Class
```

This change would also impact some relative links in the doc, so open to not accepting it. I'm just wondering after reading these and pretending I know nothing, would I know what "Class" is referring to in the side nav?

Author: Good point. I followed what was done on the dark mode docs, so I made the change there too: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/225dc62d4ac724ef797ef341797fc55cdb4f1a6d

> While the previous approaches are excellent for enabling the high contrast theme through file imports alone, there are scenarios where you may need more control over its application. In cases where you need to apply the high contrast theme conditionally, such as through a toggle, or if you want to extend the functionality based on system settings, we provide a high contrast theme class file. This file applies the high contrast theme when a specific class is added to an app. Importing the following stylesheets into the appropriate file will provide the necessary styles for using the high contrast theme with the class:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the previous approaches are excellent for enabling the high contrast theme through file imports alone, there are scenarios where you may need more control over where it is applied. In cases where you need to apply the high contrast theme conditionally, such as through a toggle, or if you want to extend the functionality based on system settings, we provide a high contrast theme class file. This file applies the high contrast theme when a specific class is added to an app. Importing the following stylesheets into the appropriate file will provide the necessary styles for using the high contrast theme with the class:
```

~ Optional. I think using "application" can get confusing vs. the context of an app someone is building.

:::info
Not sure how to change the system settings? Here's how to enable high contrast mode on [Windows 11](hhttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/turn-high-contrast-mode-on-or-off-in-windows-909e9d89-a0f9-a3a9-b993-7a6dcee85025) and on [macOS](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/change-display-settings-for-accessibility-unac089/mac).
:::

import ClassHighContrastMode from '@site/static/usage/v8/theming/class-high-contrast-mode/index.md';

<ClassHighContrastMode />

:::caution
The high contrast light theme must be imported after [core.css](../layout/global-stylesheets#corecss),
and the high contrast dark theme must be imported after `dark.class.css`. Otherwise, the standard contrast theme will take
priority.
:::

:::caution
The `.ion-theme-high-contrast` class **must** be added to the `html` element in order to work with the imported high contrast theme.
:::

## Customizing Ionic High Contrast Theme

> Ionic has a recommended high contrast theme that can be enabled in three different ways: [always](#always), based on [system](#system) settings, or by using a [class](#class). Each of these methods involves importing the high contrast theme file with the corresponding name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ionic has a recommended high contrast theme that can be enabled in three different ways: [always](#always), based on [system](#system) settings, or by using a [CSS class](#class). Each of these methods involves importing the high contrast theme file with the corresponding name.
```

Author: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/3431/commits/225dc62d4ac724ef797ef341797fc55cdb4f1a6d
